# AMS-572-Coronavirus-Mortality-Data-Analysis
If we had one word to describe our lives for the past two years, it would be COVID-19. This virus has affected our daily lives in countless ways: how we work, shop, study, socialize, and more. The primary reason for all of this is because COVID is deadly. We know generally what makes us more at risk of dying, but policy decisions regarding the virus should not be made on these generalities. Instead, they should be made on concrete results obtained via statistical methods. As a result, we found it prudent to study COVID data, particularly COVID patient surveillance data provided by the CDC Case Surveillance Task Force. This data is reported to the CDC by regional health departments across the country and is typically collected from healthcare providers and COVID testing labs. With this data, we aimed to analyze the accuracy of reported estimates regarding the virus’s death rate, the proportion of people infected with COVID-19 that die, both in general and with regard to age, which we believed to be one of the most important factors in the death rate. We obtained estimates for the death proportions from the National Center for Health Statistics and Johns Hopkins University of Medicine. Furthermore, we aimed to assess the significance of a patient's attributes on their chance of death using logistic regression. We wanted to determine when patients and healthcare professionals should take cases more seriously (as in, consider more intensive treatment) using the resulting logistic model.
